[Music]
hello namaskar this is first post and
you're watching Vantage with me Pali
Sharma
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
trump has paused his tariffs for 90 days
it should be called a roll back or a
U-turn after markets crashed and US
bonds lost value but the Americans are
nothing if not spin masters so they're
calling it a pause and a win go figure
the markets are trying to calm down
recession fears have not gone away and
trust issues have worsened we look at
what prompted the pause why China is
still under attack now with 125% tariffs
and how it is fighting back what should
be India's strategy why Germany is
mulling moving gold back from the US and
what lies ahead in the Trump trade
war also in focus 2611 accused the
heavana is back in India it exposes US
terror hypocrisy they took 16 years to
extradite a terrorist and cut a deal
with his partner why US visas are being
cancelled over anti-Trump posts how the
Panama Canal has become a battleground
would you clone your pet thousands of
people are doing it and can artificial
intelligence predict murder all this and
more coming up the headlines first
turkey and Israel hold talks to ease
tensions over Syria ankara is a key
supporter of the new Syrian regime which
toppled Bashar al-Assad last December
but Israel wants to keep the Syrian
forces away from its border and has
launched air strikes and ground
incursions to deter them turkey has
suspended all trade with Israel over the
Gaza
war the US and Russia swap prisoners as
they push to rebuild ties washington
exchanged a sanction sanctions busting
suspect for a ballet dancer held by
Moscow the exchange took place at an
airport in Abu Dhabi this is the second
prisoner swap under US President Donald
Trump the death toll from the Dominican
Republic nightclub disaster rises to
more than 200 the tragedy took place on
Tuesday after a roof collapsed at a
crowded nightclub more than 500 people
have been injured this is the Karibbean
nation's worst disaster in
decades more trouble for ousted
Bangladeshi Prime Minister Shik Hassina
a fresh arrest warrant has been issued
against her and her daughter in a
corruption case hassina also faces two
arrest warrants over alleged
humanitarian crimes and forced
disappearances last August she fled
Bangladesh and has been living in India
since
then and look who's back as captain in
the Indian Premier League ms Dhoni will
lead the Chennai Super Kings for the
remainder of the tournament he will
replace Ritaj who is out of the IPL due
to an elbow injury 43-year-old Dhoni was
captain of the CSK till 2024
[Music]
april 2nd 2025 will forever be
remembered as the day American industry
was reborn the day that we began to make
America wealthy again
[Music]
i'm telling you these countries are
calling us up kissing my They are they
are dying to make a deal please please
sir make a deal i'll do anything i'll do
anything
[Music]
sir they all want to make a deal
somebody had to do what we did and I did
a 90-day pause for the people that
didn't retaliate
[Music]
donald Trump has rolled back the tariffs
eight days after he announced them and
12 hours after they came into
effect he has declared a pause in fact
his trade war began unraveling from the
word go pressure started mounting on the
White House from top CEOs to Wall Street
traders everyone wanted Trump to slow
down and after much grandstanding he
complied
they all want to make a deal somebody
had to do what we did and I did a 90-day
pause for the people that didn't
retaliate
trump says this 90-day pause is for 75
countries those who have been calling up
and pleading with him for a trade deal
the actual words he used were worse so
we'll go with pleading trump has been
boasting about this suggesting that the
whole world is bending over backwards to
woo him he kept saying he won't budge
but he did within 12 hours tsmc I gave
them so America's trade partners now
have 90 days if they can manage a deal
in this periodion they won't face
tariffs but China is not part of this
list it is clearly enemy number one for
the United States so Donald Trump is
piling on the pressure he has raised
tariffs on Chinese goods again from 104%
to
125% we'll discuss this in detail in
just a bit but for the moment let's
focus on Trump's U-turn here is how the
last 24 hours played out as always it
began on social media that's how things
begin with Donald Trump on social media
he posted on his platform Truth Social
and this is what he
said this is a great time to buy that's
all that was a post traders took note
they gave a mixed reaction during the
early morning trade the markets
fluctuated swinging between red and
green there was a lot of speculation on
what this post really meant many thought
Trump was teasing another announcement
maybe a shift in policy or at least a
pause while all of this played out in
the markets and on social media behind
the scenes Trump was working on announce
an announcement he huddled with his
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant and
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik
together they drafted the 90-day pause
plan and within hours it was made
official again Trump broke the news on
social media minutes later Besson gave a
statement to the press we saw the
successful negotiating strategy that
President Trump implemented the a week
ago today and what we have ended up with
here as I told everyone a week ago there
in in this very spot do not retaliate
and you will be rewarded so every
country in the world who wants to come
and negotiate the we are willing to hear
you
he makes it sound like that was the plan
all along trump's art of the deal and
what have you that's how Trump likes to
frame each negotiation step one take
aggressive action take an extreme
position the idea is to shock and awe do
something unexpected that stuns the
other side that is step one step two
claim instant success say that the other
side is caving and step three take a
pause announce a concession and open the
door for negotiation
many of you in the media clearly missed
the art of the deal you clearly failed
to see what President Trump is doing
here the entire world is calling the
United States of America not China
because they need our markets they need
our consumers and they need this
president in the Oval Office to talk to
them the White House is making it sound
like a win but it's a premature
declaration trump still needs the trade
deals to be locked that's what the next
90 days are for without the trade deals
the tariffs could come back so a deal is
the final
step at least in Trump's calculus and
he's not giving up on that goal he has
not scrabbed the tariffs even the pause/
roll back is not complete he has not
withdrawn the 10% baseline
tariff remember this is something that
came into effect on the 5th of April
trump had imposed a flat 10% tax on
every US trade
partner and this 10% tax still applies
same with the tax on steel aluminium and
automobiles their imports steel
aluminium and automobile imports were
slapped with a 25% tariff and that
remains
unchanged the big tariffs country-wise
tariffs were announced on April 2nd
trump called it liberation day before
that he had taxed Canada and Mexico
separately then he rolled back some of
it he's basically been taking two steps
forward one step back it's quite chaotic
nonetheless the markets welcome this
latest pause indian markets were shut
today because of a national holiday so
we'll see the reaction tomorrow us
stocks surged after Trump's announcement
investors added $4.8
trillion in one day in value this is the
largest gain on record 4 $4.8 trillion
and this was yesterday how are the
markets doing today the has returned us
stocks appeared volatile early in the
day the dollar has also
slipped investors remain uncertain about
the long term and that says a
lot after pausing the tariffs Trump and
his team are taking a victory lab but
investors are in no mood to celebrate
yet they're not confident about what may
be coming next
[Music]
i thought that people were uh jumping a
little bit out of line they were getting
yippy you know they were getting a
little bit
yippy bond market is very tricky i was
watching it but if you look at it now
it's
[Music]
beautiful china wants to make a deal
they just don't know how quite to go
about
[Music]
it so the tariffs kicked in yesterday
morning and by nightfall Trump had hit
pause a 90-day pause for every country
except China no details no real
explanation just a pause so what
changed for a president whose brand is
rooted in toughness this is a rare
concession trump's been hyping up this
tariff plan for weeks promising to go
full steam ahead there was no backing
down not even when the markets tanked so
what prompted the sudden U-turn well I
thought that people were uh jumping a
little bit out of line they were getting
yippy you know they were getting a
little bit yippy a little bit afraid
unlike these champions because we have a
big job to do no other president would
have done what I did no other pre I know
the presidents they wouldn't have done
it and it had to be done
you heard him trump says people were
getting yippy that's the word he used
yippi chances are this was not the only
reason so let's look at the factors that
led to this U-turn number one US debt
bonds the trade war hit them hard it
triggered a panic sell-off of US
bonds and what are bonds you see
governments need money to run a country
but they don't always have enough of
that money so they borrow money by
selling something that is called
bonds and who buys these bonds
individuals companies even foreign
governments they can all buy US
government bonds or any government bonds
for that matter in return the government
pays them interest that's the long and
short of a government bond now US
government bonds are usually seen as a
good investment people love buying US
bonds because they're seen as a safe
haven investors flock to them during
tough
times so the bond market is like a
canary in a coal mine but this time
something spooked the canary
trump's tariffs kicked off a trade war
it made investors nervous so many of
them started selling their US
bonds when you sell bond prices drop and
what happens when bond prices drop
interest rates go up basically it costs
the government more to borrow money
there aren't enough people buying their
bonds and that signals just one thing
investors were losing confidence in the
US economy
so Donald Trump was not really worried
about the markets collapsing but the
bond selloff that was a different story
altogether if it kept going his entire
agenda could have become financially
untenable so behind the scenes Trump
officials were panicking his own
Treasury Secretary by the way called the
situation and I'm quoting
uncomfortable looks like it got a little
too uncomfortable
bond market is very tricky i was
watching it but if you look at it now
it's uh it's beautiful the bond market
right now is beautiful uh but yeah I saw
last night where people were getting a
little queasy i think everything had uh
well the big move wasn't what I did
today the big move was what I did on
Liberation Day
so that was reason number one the bond
market selloff that threatened the
financial stability of the US government
reason number two Trump was losing
political capital while markets were
sending signals Trump's phone lines were
melting ceos were frantically dialing
the White House republicans were seeking
clarity constituents were asking for
answers and all of them had the same
warning their patience had
limits with midterm elections next year
and public sentiment souring the cost of
staying the course was rising by the
hour you have to have flexibility uh I
could say "Here's a wall and I'm going
to go through that wall i'm going to go
through it no matter what and keep
going." And you can't go through the
wall sometimes you have to be able to go
under the wall around the wall or over
the wall these guys know that better
than anybody right
which brings us to reason number three
negotiations ironically it was the
success of the tariff threat that gave
Trump an
offramp the tariffs jolted countries
into picking up the phone they all
wanted to talk to Trump
in true art of the deal fashion that's
the whole point make a big move rattle
the room then wait for them to come to
you in Trumpian logic that looks like a
victory so for him this is not a pause
this is a tactical recalibration a pause
that could give way to 100 potential
trade deals a deal is going to be made
with China a deal's going to be made
with every one of them and there'll be
fair deals i just want fair uh they will
be fair deals for everybody but they
weren't fair to the United States they
were sucking us
dry this tells you all you need to know
about Donald Trump he's a man of gut
decisions calibrated more by cable news
than cabinet meetings policy is often
reactive not proactive negotiation is a
performance not a process one week the
world braces for a trade war the next
it's a pause and a negotiation bonanza
so what happens next will the tariffs
come back after 90 days maybe maybe not
no one knows for
sure but what happened here says
something bigger trade wars are not just
about tariffs they're also about timing
perception and politics and sometimes
even the boldest of plans have to wait
let's talk about China now donald Trump
is doubling down on Beijing in two days
he has raised tariffs on China twice the
tax on Chinese imports is now at
125% that's higher than anyone else
anything coming from China into the US
will be taxed 125% the US president has
singled out
China there is no tariff pause for the
Chinese at the same time he believes
that China wants to make a deal with him
china wants to make a deal they just
don't know how quite to go about it you
know it's one of those things they don't
know quite They're proud people and uh
President Xi's a proud man i know them
very well and they don't know quite how
to go about it but they'll figure it out
they're in the process of figuring it
out but they want to make a deal so
Trump has not given up hope he believes
China does want to make a deal but Xi
Jinping doesn't know how to ask that may
or may not be the case what we can say
is this xi Jinping has a response and he
is delivering it quite clearly and
effectively china is retaliating every
step of the way in round one Trump
slapped a 54% tariff on China china hit
back with 84% retaliatory tariffs on US
imports
enraged Donald Trump raised the stakes
he increased the tariffs on China to
125% but Beijing remains undeterred it
is fighting back in multiple ways some
symbolic others substantial for instance
China has moved the WTO against the US
that's the World Trade Organization its
mandate is to enforce international
trade rules but in recent years its
limitations have become quite obvious
so China's appeal may be just to make a
point the WTO may not be able to help
them very
much the second move from Beijing is
this it is punishing American businesses
it has restricted 18 US companies they
will have a tough time doing business in
China now and this happened yesterday 18
companies today Beijing went after
Hollywood reports say it will curb movie
imports from the US
and now with Donald Trump raising the
stakes further China plans to target
American interests in more ways here's
what they said today
the United States is still imposing
tariffs on China and China is firmly
opposed to such bullying china will
absolutely not accept pressure threats
and blackmail that is not the right way
to deal with China if the US side really
wants to talk it should show an attitude
of equality respect and reciprocity if
the United States ignores the interest
of the two countries and the
international community and insists on
fighting a tariff war and a trade war
China will certainly accompany it to the
end we will fight till the end they're
calling Trump's actions
blackmail what about Trump's offers to
make a deal does Beijing want to work
something out here's what China's
commerce ministry here's how they
responded to the question
china's position is clear and consistent
the door to talks is open but dialogue
must be conducted on an equal basis with
mutual respect china will stand by its
position until the end pressuring
threatening and blackmailing are not the
correct ways to deal with China we hope
that the US will work with China based
on the principles of mutual respect
peaceful coexistence and a win-win
cooperation we will properly resolve
differences through dialogue and
consultation thank you
china says it is open to dialogue but it
doesn't trust the US it doesn't believe
that Trump will negotiate in good faith
it's a bit rich coming from China but I
guess that's how karma works
unfortunately this deadlock hurts the
rest of the world too because the US and
China are the world's two biggest
economies their clash will have a lot of
collateral damage the US is the biggest
importer of goods in the world china is
the biggest exporter unlike other
countries Trump has not given China an
out neither has Beijing shown any sign
of stepping back it is preparing for the
long haul complete with a trade war
toolkit china is basically working on
two fronts one stabilizing its economy
two raising pressure on the US at home
Beijing is working to calm the stock
markets and for this it has mobilized
state-owned enterprises S OE they're
very big in China when Chinese stocks
fell after Trump's announcement these
state-owned enterprises bought shares to
keep prices
stable china's Reserve Bank is also
doing its bit it has allowed their
currency the yuan to weaken and how does
that help it makes Chinese exports
cheaper it negates the impact of the
tariffs to a certain extent beijing is
also trying to control the narrative
chinese sensors have been selectively of
course censoring posts online about
Trump's tariffs and the larger trade war
posts that target and criticize the US
are being allowed the ones that discuss
Trump's tariffs in details are being
removed the idea is to shape public
sentiment in favor of China and paint
the US in poor light
so that's the domestic response and in
the days ahead China could take more
targeted steps it could hit US
agricultural imports that's a key part
of Trump's support base the US financial
services sector could also be in the
crosshairs this includes American
investment banks and asset management
companies again these are part of
Trump's support base so the aim is to
strike at Trump's political
backers to build pressure on the US
president these do not look like the
moves of a country that is dying to get
a deal with
Trump this is a fight back the US China
trade war is
escalating the last few days I've been
thinking about it we don't want to hurt
countries that don't need to be hurt and
they all want to negotiate
[Music]
so Trump is now China's headache he has
increased tariffs again to 145% now but
that's no reason for India to be
complacent in fact now is the time to be
proactive india has 90 days to make its
next move the first priority will be to
conclude a trade
deal if not a full one at least a mini
trade deal one that will avert the
tariffs because the next round could be
more painful look at look at Trump's
initial tariffs he excluded some crucial
industries like pharmaceuticals and
semiconductors they were not tariffed
but his next round could include them so
we're going to be announcing very
shortly a major tariff on
pharmaceuticals and when you and when
they hear that they will leave China
they will leave other places because
they have to sell most of their product
is sold here
and that's bad news for India we export
a lot of farmer products to the US the
trade is worth almost $10 billion any
tariff on that could hurt producers and
we saw the impact on Wednesday india's
farmer stocks took a plunge the nifty's
farmer basket was down 2% that's another
reason for India to speed up the trade
talks but that's only one part of the
plan indian officials clearly see this
as an
opportunity yesterday we spoke to
India's commerce minister he called the
trade war a good omen
the US has suffered massive trade
deficits because of the non-market
economy that is China because of their
predatory pricing or unfair trade
practices and I think the United States
is trying to reset the rules of the game
and in some sense it's a good or for
India
so how can India turn this challenge
into a
success that requires mainly two things
is number one diversifying our exports
beyond the United States right now the
US is our biggest market it makes up
more than 18% of India's total
exports but now it's an unreliable
market which is why India needs to
diversify how do we do that by striking
more trade deals with other partners
india's finance minister Nirmala Sithar
Raman is on the job she's on a visit to
Britain right now her goal is to seal a
free trade deal with London
and reports say 90% of the deal is done
just a couple of issues are left to be
addressed like whiskey cars and
pharmaceuticals india's biggest concern
was mobility new Delhi wanted more
British visas for Indians and reports
say that issue has largely been
addressed if so we could see a deal soon
a second agreement is being discussed
with Europe the European Union president
had visited New Delhi this year she
agreed to conclude a trade deal before
the end of 2025 and both sides are
taking a new approach they want to
finish the deal in phases normally you
sign one comprehensive agreement but
India and the EU want to break it up
issues of least difference can be taken
up first the more contentious ones can
be taken up later and what would that
achieve well some of the barriers can be
lifted sooner you don't have to wait
around for a full deal to get things
going i guess this makes the government
strategy pretty clear strike as many
deals as possible in fact the finance
minister spelled it out herself she said
multilateral trade is on the back burner
bilateral is the way to
go india is also looking at many
bilateral arrangements in the recent
past we've signed agreements with
Australia with UAE with Oman and uh we
are looking forward to concluding the
bilateral trade agreement with UK
negotiating also with the EU and this is
going to catch up and I think that's the
way the world is going multilateral is
at the moment in the back burner
so that's part one of India's plan
strike deals to reduce trade barriers
the second part is arguably more
important india must ramp up its
manufacturing
footprint just look at these numbers
india makes up 2.9% of the global
manufacturing output china makes up more
than 31% 2.9 versus
31% almost a third of all goods in the
world are made in
China now Trump is intent on breaking
that dominance even Europe is looking
for alternatives and that is where India
comes in a similar opportunity came up a
few years back during Trump's first term
as president first he launched a trade
war with China then came the Wuhan virus
pandemic and both these events forced
companies to shift out of China but
where did they go we don't have the full
numbers with us but look at the period
from April 2018 to August 2019 this is
before the pandemic 2018 to 2019 this
was the peak of the USChina trade war
around 56 US firms relocated from
China 26 of them went to Vietnam 11 went
to Taiwan eight went to Thailand do you
know how many came to India just three
many experts rude that lost opportunity
that chance to capitalize on the exodus
from China but thankfully a second
opportunity has presented itself now it
happens very rarely in geopolitics so it
is important for India to make it count
this
time back then companies had certain
concerns they said India's tariffs were
too high they complained about red tape
and regulatory issues almost 5 years
have passed now india has made strides
to address those concerns so let's see
if we have better luck this time
it's been a financial thriller with no
clear ending the markets plunge into
chaos then they soar on a single
announcement one minute China faces 125%
tariffs the next it has 145% one day the
US is heading towards a recession the
next day predictions suggest only a
slump but beneath all the ups and downs
there's a bigger question that is
haunting the global economy
can the US still be trusted as the
world's safe haven the 90-day pause in
tariffs may have calmed the markets but
it seems to have rattled America's most
powerful currency of all trust our next
report tells you
why the markets have been on a wild
roller coaster for weeks one minute
they're plunging the next they're
skyrocketing and just when everyone
thinks the ride is going to end in a
crash a surprise twist happens
trump hit the brakes on his tariff plan
the news is like a sudden breath of
fresh air global markets surge again
registering one of their biggest gains
since the Second World
War but here's the thing it wasn't all
smooth sailing yes the pause sounded
like good news at first but it doesn't
mean the storm is over you see Trump's
move brought a brief calm but the
reality was the tariffs were still very
much a part of the picture china wasn't
even included in this 90-day break and
Washington Beijing tensions are only
getting worse in fact the tariffs on
Chinese goods has shot up to
125% so the trade war is not exactly
ending anytime soon
everything is still uh very volatile
because with Donald Trump you don't know
what to expect because this this is
really big uncertainty in the big market
the threat of recession uh has not uh
faded and the one one of the most
important indicator is that US interest
rates are spiking because people fear
that China will
unload$1 trillion US worth of US
Treasury
bills and here's where the plot thickens
the poison tariffs gave Wall Street a
reason to cheer but the underlying
uncertainties remained when the tariffs
were announced most economists predicted
a recession but they've backtracked from
it now goldman Sachs now sees no
recession in the near future but has
kept odds of a serious downturn at just
under
50% so they believe the trade tornado
has been averted but as a lot of experts
have warned the US economy is still in a
precarious place here's the real problem
all this uncertainty these constant
policy flip-flops and the erratic nature
of the Trump administration's approach
to trade it's starting to erode one of
the US's most valuable assets trust for
years the US has been seen as a safe
haven for global investors when times
were tough people turned to US
government bonds and the dollar they
knew the US had the stability and power
to weather any storm but can they say
that now with tariffs being imposed and
lifted on a whim markets swinging wildly
in response to every tweet it's becoming
harder and harder to trust the US as a
safe bet sure the 90-day tariff pause
gave the market some breathing room but
it didn't fix the deeper issue the US's
role in the global economy is uncertain
and in a world that's already full of
uncertainties that's a problem as
investors businesses and governments
watch how the US handles its trade
relationships the immediate threat of a
US recession might have eased but the
broader implications are still unfolding
america is still at a crossroads and
whether it can regain the confidence of
investors is still very much up in the
air the next chapter in this story could
be just one Trump tweet away
so tariffs are paused but the chaos
continues and you know what they say
about chaos it's really bad for business
pretty soon it could hurt brand America
the United States has always been seen
as a safe bet want a stable currency use
the US dollar want a trusted government
bond buy from the US Treasury want to
store your gold abroad just ask the
Federal Reserve this is how things have
been run since the Second World War it
is a system designed by the United
States and it is backed by their
military and economic
heft but could it all be unraveling well
the signs are there germany is thinking
about bringing back its gold from the
United States as you know every country
has a gold reserve they stock up
bullions for stability but some of those
bullions are stored abroad mainly in
London and New York why is that well
London and New York are key financial
hubs so it's easy to sell or pledge the
gold plus security is a big concern say
your country is under attack your
enemies take over the gold vaults you
would lose access to a key source of
money and this is why countries store
some of their gold
abroad and Germany has a lot of it they
have some 3,300 tons of
gold out of this 1,200 tons of gold are
stored in the United States but some
German leaders now want to bring it back
and that includes a former German
minister they want to bring back the
gold or at least inspect it why because
they do not trust Donald Trump
technically the gold is on US soil
imagine the US government deciding to
take it over using
force what would Germany do would they
send soldiers to New York i know it
sounds like a far-fetched scenario but
German leaders are worried they feel it
is better to be safe than sorry i'm sure
other countries are also discussing this
concern india for example has been
bringing back its gold new Delhi stores
gold in London New York and Basil
Switzerland but recently a lot of it has
been brought back nearly 200
tons in the last two years 200 tons of
Indian gold has been brought back now
India's reasoning was different here the
Reserve Bank of India felt confident
about the country's economic
trajectory hence they decided to
repatriate the
gold but Donald Trump adds a different
dimension to the
campaign the dimension of
trust can you trust America to safeguard
your
gold as of now this is just a question
there is no global campaign to relocate
gold from America but the mere debate is
a story in itself it tells you how trust
is eroding just look at the US dollar in
the year 2000 the dollar made up 70 70%
of global reserve 70 countries like to
stock up the dollar but now it has
fallen to
57% same with US government bonds it's
seen a very safe as a as a very safe bet
by investors normally they stock up on
US bonds when there is
uncertainty but this week despite the
chaos investors sold US bonds why
because of eroding trust in the United
States and America has only itself to
blame for this problem they created this
whole system after the Second World War
and they put themselves at the center of
it fair enough they won the war plus no
other country had the will or the power
to do it but when you become the
centerpiece you must be trustworthy you
must avoid politicization and that is
where the US
failed they weaponized global financial
services they weaponized the dollar's
dominance and they use the system to
further their
gains so naturally countries pushed
back of course Trump is adding to that
chaos until now only American rivals
were pursuing alternatives but now even
allies like Germany are doing it
as I said these are just conversations
for now but if they gain momentum they
could signal the end of America's
financial dominance
[Music]
it's a big day for India a key accused
in the Mumbai terror attacks has been
extradited his name is Tvu Rana rana was
arrested in the US in 2009 almost 16
years later he has been brought to India
he will finally face Indian
justice now this is indeed a diplomatic
success for New Delhi only two
terrorists had been extradited from the
US to India rana is now the third one so
it is a rare and commendable
feat but tonight we'll go beyond the
euphoria we will look at the politics
behind this
extradition and what it tells us about
terror and geopolitical
convenience first some background the
Hebu Rana was born in Pakistan he served
as a doctor in their military later he
moved abroad and became a businessman
rana also has links to the Lashkarto
this is the same terror group that was
behind the Mumbai terror attacks of
2008 rana and his childhood friend aided
that attack that friend being David
Coleman Hedley in 2006 the Hurana set up
a Mumbai branch for his company he then
sent David Hedley to work there
basically he gave Hedley a perfect cover
while in Mumbai David Hedley did
reconnaissance for Lashkar he identified
targets and chartered plans i'm sure you
know what happened next pakistani
terrorists attacked Mumbai in November
2008 they killed more than 160 people
the next year in 2009 Tahu Rana was
arrested in the US he was convicted on
terror charges but it took more than a
decade to bring him to
India and what about David Hedley he is
currently serving time in the US but
chances are he will never be extradited
to India do you know why because he cut
a deal with the Americans david Hedley
pleaded guilty during the trial in
return the Americans promised not to
extradite
him how about that this is the same
America that claims to never negotiate
with terrorists that eliminates
terrorists in foreign
countries yet at home they cut a deal so
America's role must be scrutinized here
former Indian officials say that they
acted in bad faith the
Americans they acted in bad faith indian
officials say that David Hedley was a
double agent basically he worked for the
US and Pakistan they also say that
Washington knew about about Hedley's
operations they knew that he was aiding
the Mumbai
attacks so why did they not stop
him i guess we'll never know maybe
that's why the US promised to never
extradite David Hedley and it tells you
a lot about America's policy their fight
is not against terrorism their fight is
against what they perceive as
terrorism an attack on Twin Towers
definitely terrorism let's invade
multiple countries to pursue
justice a deadly raid by Hamas on Israel
certainly terrorism let's give weapons
and allow Israel to kill 40,000
Palestinians but an attack in Mumbai
aided by a Pakistani agent let's cut him
a deal and deny extradition
this is similar to what Pakistan does
islamabad divides terrorists into good
and bad good terrorists attack India bad
terrorists attack
Pakistan maybe they learned it from
their godfathers in
Washington either way it is time to call
out this hypocrisy terrorism should not
be good or bad acceptable or
unacceptable political or non-political
strategic or random terrorism is
terrorism it is about driving fear into
the minds of people anyone who does it
should be
prosecuted if you're not doing that you
are exposing your
interests and that is what America is
doing here they may have agreed to
extradite the Burana but they will keep
David Hedley locked
away if the United States is serious
about fighting terrorism they must ditch
these filters forget the geopolitical
fallout focus on justice that you keep
preaching others about
not justice the Americans love teaching
the world about free speech as well they
call their country the land of the free
but of course conditions apply
like posting what you think on social
media like criticizing the US President
Donald Trump it may cost you your visa
in fact hundreds of visas have already
been
cancelled so who's on the list tourists
students even green card holders they've
lost their visas the justification they
posed a threat to national security the
evidence screenshots of their social
media posts remember Donald Trump's
re-election campaign was all about free
speech but now critical social media
posts are being treated as crime if
you're traveling to the United States
our next report is a mustwatch for you
the United States is witnessing a major
shift in its immigration
policies the Trump administration is
reviewing all visa applications with the
magnifying lens and a new kind of
crackdown is
underway the land that claims to promote
free speech and the right to protest
seems to be changing its
colors this month hundreds of visas were
revoked by the Trump administration this
includes tourists students and even
green card
holders the Department of Homeland
Security and the Department of State are
working on this together their plan is
simple go through the social media posts
of all visa applicants and flag posts
that may be of concern to America's
national security posts that are against
their president Donald Trump and even
posts that are seen as hateful in fact
there's a
list like posts that are anti-Trump or
anti-semitic and this includes posts
that are pro- Hamas pro- Hezbollah pro-
Houthis or any post that the Trump
administration considers as sympathizing
with terror
groups so how exactly is this being done
well using artificial intelligence the
Trump administration is heavily
deploying AI to flag what it considers
as hateful social media content till now
at least 500 visas have been revoked
this includes at least 300 student visas
the US Secretary of State Marco Rubio
has made it clear that everyone is
welcome in the United States but
anti-American activities will not be
tolerated
rubio also said that non- US citizens
don't have the same rights as Americans
however critics argue that all visa
holders on US soil have the same free
speech rights as US
citizens for now the visa cancellations
have begun the Trump administration
wants these people out of the United
States and they found a way to expedite
the exit
the US is now charging
$998 for each day that a person who had
their visa revoked overstays in the
country that's not all if a person stays
in the US for 30 days after having their
visa revoked the Trump administration
will consider jail time for the
violators the Alien Registration Act
says that if you're in this country for
longer than 30 days illegally you must
register with the federal government and
when those 30 days are up and if you
haven't done that now we can criminally
charge you
but there is some push back several
universities and activists are demanding
an explanation they are accusing the
Trump administration of bias while many
students had their visa revoked for
political activism some were targeted
with no clear evidence of being involved
in political activities however many
students are now self-deporting
themselves and Secretary of State Marco
Rubio says the crackdown is just getting
started he plans to revoke hundreds of
visas every day if those visa holders
have made social media posts that the US
considers a threat to national security
so if you're planning a trip to the
United States make sure your social
media game is about memes and not
political activism
now let's turn to Panama it is a tiny
nation in Central America but it is
caught in a tug of war between two
giants the US and
China why because of a canal the Panama
Canal a strip of water that connects two
oceans the Atlantic and the Pacific the
waterway is like America's lifeline 40%
of all containers that pass through it
are from the US goods worth $270
billion flow through every year the
canal is just 82 km long but it carries
the weight of the world's economy and
now the weight of American anxiety why
do I say this because of Pete Hegith
he's the US Secretary of Defense or
their defense minister the American
defense minister he's currently in
Panama he landed in Panama City on the
7th of April and began his official
visit with a declaration that the US
will take the Panama Canal back from
China listen to this together we will
take back the Panama Canal from China's
influence together with Panama in the
lead we will keep the canal secure and
available for all nations
that's what Pete Hegis said on his first
day in Panama the message was not subtle
china has to
go let me explain what he's talking
about the Trump administration says the
Panama Canal has been taken over by
China this canal has five ports two of
them are operated by a company called CK
Hutchinson it's a firm from Hong Kong it
operates two ports one at either side of
the canal so basically this firm
controls the entry and the
exit this Hong Kong firm and they won
the contract in
1996 and the US has raised red flags
since then 1996 there are fears of
surveillance espionage and strategic
control of the waterway and now
Washington has a plan to fix it buy back
the two ports the process is already
underway american firm Black Rockck will
pay $23 billion for this and China is
furious they're calling the sale a
betrayal this reaction also betrays
China's true intentions why are they
making a fuss about what a Hong Kong
firm does maybe there is some truth to
Trump's allegations washington says it
will protect Panama's sovereignity and
what do they want in return military
bases president Trump says we're taking
back the Panama Canal from Chinese
influence that involves partnership with
the United States and Panama and we're
grateful that they've welcomed uh US
troops on Panameanian soil by invitation
through ro rotational joint exercises
and that's what you'll see in the
memorandum of understanding is an
opportunity to revive whether it's uh
the military base naval air station uh
locations where US troops can work with
Panameanian troops to enhance
capabilities
so Pete Hexit floated the idea of US
bases in Panama and boots on the ground
around the canal how did Panama respond
with a firm no panama's defense minister
cleared the air he said "No such deal
has been agreed upon then they released
two statements one in Spanish the other
in English." The Spanish version
included a line and I
quote "The US recognizes Panama's
sovereignity over the Panama
Canal." That's what the Spanish version
said the this sentence was missing from
the English version so Panama is openly
standing up to the US and these two
countries have a past the US built the
Panama Canal back in
1914 in 1977 they signed a treaty to
hand over the canal to
Panama 1977 but the US held on to the
canal till 1999 and Panama remembers all
of that the painful American occupation
particularly in the year
1989 you may have read about operation
just cause that's when the US invaded
Panama and toppled its government more
than 500 civilians were
killed and the wounds are still raw so
you cannot blame Panama for having trust
issues donald Trump's rhetoric is not
helping either first he refused to
recognize Panama's sovereignity over
this canal then he claimed that Chinese
troops operate the canal and he also
blamed Panama for overcharging US ships
for using the
waterway in February he sent Secretary
of State Marco Rubio to Panama and now
it's Pete
Hexit so Panama is winging the waters
with caution two months back they pulled
out of China's Barri the Belt and Road
Initiative then they launched an audit
into the Hong Kong firm's canal
operations they found multiple contract
breaches panama says the Hong Kong firm
duped them of more than $1
billion now that firm is on its way out
but the power play has just begun the
canal is still Panama's but Trump is
desperate to make a deal and he wants
China out of the picture
moral of the story in geopolitics even a
canal can become a
battlefield you have probably heard of
Dolly the sheep she was the first mammal
to be cloned and it happened a long time
ago in 1996 since then the menagerie of
cloned animals has only grown and the
science has come a long way so much so
that people are cloning their dead pets
especially in China this country has
more pets than young children and now
people are trying to bring their dead
furry companions back to life this may
sound like science fiction but pet
cloning is a $4 billion market around
the world now and what's behind it how
are people cloning their pets and does
it even work here's a report
this is Joker a Doberman a loyal and
brave companion to a woman in China but
the dog died in 2022 from a heart attack
causing the owner so much more pain than
she could have imagined so the woman
turned to science and she cloned her dog
for $22,000 she replicated her dog this
scenario sounds straight out of science
fiction after all woman or dog death is
inevitable but in today's day and age it
doesn't have to be forever and this is
not an isolated case a growing number of
pet owners in China are cloning their
pets and here's how it works people take
a skin sample from their pet insert its
DNA into a donor egg then implant this
embryo into a surrogate mother and soon
the cloned pet an identical twin of the
original pet is born this may sound
absurd but for the owners it is a way to
overcome grief to continue their bond
with furry companions on their own terms
and for the service providers it is a
way to earn the big bucks because
cloning a pet doesn't come cheap cloning
a cat costs up to
$40,000 and cloning a dog
$50,000 but despite the high costs
people are willing to pay the price to
bring their pets kind of back to life
and this is fueled by advancing
biotechnology and a booming pet market
you see China's fertility rate is
falling now China has more pets than
young children and its pet supplies
market is growing by 7.5% annually no
wonder then that people are going to all
kinds of lengths to clone their dead
animals and this isn't just happening in
China the global pet industry stands at
$320 billion it is expected to swell to
almost $500 billion by 2030 people are
buying more pets pet health care is
improving there are more varants of pet
food than ever before there is even
luxury clothing for pets and people are
willing to splurge after all according
to a new study having a cat or a dog can
boost your well-being as much as being
married or meeting friends regularly
so when a pet dies the pain pet owners
can feel is very real which is why the
global pet cloning market is worth more
than $4 billion and it is expected to
grow but experts are concerned a large
number of clones are born unfit so the
process is unfair to the newly born
animals and to the surrogate mothers as
well who undergo unnecessary suffering
for this unnatural process there are
also logistical mishaps for instance
cloning companies sometimes produce an
entire litter of cloned puppies instead
of a single one plus cloning may
preserve the unique traits of a pet that
make them irreplaceable like their
physical appearance or their temperament
but critics question whether cloned pets
truly have the same personality as their
predecessors after all pets are uniquely
shaped by their experience and cloning
cannot replicate that because just as
identical twins have very different
personalities cloned pets can be
different too but despite the pitfalls a
lot of pet owners remain undeterred so
people may go through the five stages of
grief after their pet dies but for some
there is always a sixth stage cloning
have you watched Minority Report this
movie came out in 2002 so if so I don't
blame you if you don't remember it but
here's the gist of it a detective works
for a police department called
Prerime he uses psychics to help convict
murderers before they commit the crimes
he has absolute faith in the system that
is until the psychics predict that he
himself will kill a man and this throws
his life into turmoil and it leaves us
asking a lot of questions because this
movie is a futuristic sci-fi thriller it
is set in the year
2054 but similar events are already
taking place we are in
2025 we're seeing such events except
there is one difference instead of using
psychics the police are relying on
artificial intelligence i'm talking
about the UK their government is
creating a murder prediction program it
will use police and government data then
decide how likely someone is to kill the
UK's Ministry of Justice hopes that it
will boost public
safety but will
it we say you be the judge as per a UK
based charity the project will collect
as many as 500,000 records this will
include personal data of people
specifically of convicted offenders but
also of victims and witnesses of crime
the AI tool will collect their name
gender date of birth and information on
their ethnicity and
health like if a person struggles with
addiction or suicidal
thoughts program will know all of this
then it will analyze this information
and identify those at risk of committing
serious violent crimes like murder
what could possibly go wrong rhetorical
question but experts have some thoughts
nonetheless they call the tool chilling
and
dystopian and there are three main
reasons why first the system will
process highly sensitive information of
innocent people and those who have gone
to the police for help and like most
things tech the AI program could be
prone to glitches and privacy risks plus
it could threaten citizens' rights we've
already seen this with China their
police police uses AI to predict crime
and protests the system targets people
whose behavior is
suspicious for China's AI do you know
what qualif qualifies as suspicious
behavior apparently a person with a
mental illness going near a school that
is
suspicious now according to reports this
tool is also used to target migrant
workers in the country which brings us
to the second big risk experts claim
that the UK's AI algorithm will build
bias and this will affect the crime
predictions you have probably heard the
adage artificial intelligence systems
are only as good as the data they are
fed and time and again research has
shown that the UK police is
institutionally racist so their data
will only reinforce this campaigners
fear that it could code in the bias and
profile people with minorities from
minorities rather and low-income
communities as
criminals the third big risk as with all
things AI is
accuracy we have seen this play out
repeatedly again we see this with the AI
facial recognition system used by the US
police it fails to accurately identify
black faces the same problem applies to
the UK police the same force that now
wants to take 10 steps forward and
predict murders with
AI it rings alarm
bells now all of this is not to say that
the use of technology is all
bad ai is already being used by police
all over the world and it has massive
potential it can transform the way
police investigates crimes it can
quickly sift through vast amounts of
data it can identify patterns and
links it is a detective with unlimited
time and it never gets tired ai sounds
like every cop's best
friend but is AI ready for its easy
peasy pre-rime era unfortunately the
answer is a hard no
[Music]
what a Wednesday it was for Donald Trump
he started and then paused a global
trade
war for most leaders that would be
enough action for one day but President
Trump had more lined up he signed a
special executive order
yesterday it is called maintaining
acceptable water pressure in showerheads
next up sir let me repeat that for you
an executive presidential executive
order to increase your shower pressure
that two in the middle of a global trade
war
a lot of you may think that this is a
strategy to divert attention but it's
actually not shower pressure has been
very close to Donald Trump's heart take
a look the first of these is an
executive order the Biden administration
uh launched what you've called a war on
showers you buy a new house you pay a
lot of money and the developers you're
not allowed to do anything more they put
restrictions on but you wash your hands
and in my case I like to take a nice
shower to take care of my beautiful hair
i have to stand under the shower for 15
minutes till it gets wet it comes out
drip drip drip it's ridiculous and what
you do is you end up washing your hands
five times longer they take a shower and
water comes dripping out just tripping
out very quietly tripping out people are
flushing toilets 10 times 15 times as
opposed to once they wanted to restrict
you to 38 gallons of water a day that
sounds like a lot but it's not when
you're a rich person and you like to
take a shower shower heads and faucets
so showerheads you take a shower the
water doesn't come out you want to wash
your hands the water doesn't come out so
what do you do you just stand there
longer or you take a shower longer
because my hair I don't know about you
but it has to be
perfect
[Applause]
perfect it's time for vantage shots
images that tell the story thousands
gather in Istanbul for protest against
the arrest of Mayor Mayor Ekram Imamolu
uk's National Mapping Service maps out
the country on Minecraft using around
100 billion blocks and climate activists
pour blood red dye into the pond at the
US embassy in London finally we are
taking you back in history on this day
in 1912 the Titanic set sail from
England it was on its maiden voyage to
New York at that time it was the world's
largest ship within a few days the
luxury liner hit an iceberg and sank
killing 1,500 passengers we're leaving
you on that note thank you for watching
we'll see you tomorrow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
happy
Heat heat
[Music]
[Music]
heat